Alright, let's go and go ahead and create
our unit test for our IndexController.
Again I'm gonna come in and use IntelliJ to create it for us. It's actually
quite nice. I'm gonna do alt+enter, Create
Test and we wanna be testing that
up and we actually we're gonna need
to do a setUp also. So let's go ahead and
I'm gonna click OK there and I like
doing it this way because IntelliJ will
automatically create the class and a
proper package so everything matches up
nicely. So I am going to split this,
something I also like to do is split
this so I can see the source code for
the IndexController at top and then the
class down at bottom. And you need a
RecipeService implementation and
we're also gonna need a Model.
Now what we wanna do is annotate these
as @Mock. If you remember, in the test
that we did before, we need those MockitoAnnotations.initMocks(). So I am going to
cut and paste this right into there. Do
not do cut and paste at home. Alright.
So I'll need our mocks and we need also
gonna need our controller so let's
add that in. And we'll initialize that in
our setUp() method. Okay, so that will
create our instance of the controller
that we can use for our test and what we
wanna do is test. What we wanna do is
test make sure that that returns back
index. And we need to pass in the
model to that. You can do assertEquals
and we are expecting index, all lowercase.
So let's see if this runs.
So that is passing but we're not
verifying the interactions on the mocks.
So just to recap there. So we have the
tests that we wanted to verify that
these two mocks are called a number times. So let's come back over to our test. Our
controller here and let's add in those
verification steps. It's not the right
verify, IntelliJ.
IntelliJ is being difficult not finding him so
we'll copy over that static import. So we
wanna verify that the recipeService
times 1 and we wanna verify the
getRecipes() and we also wanna do it on the
model, the mock of the model, times also 1.
We're gonna say addAttribute. Anyway
I wanna make sure that the name is
recipes and we'll use a
method called anySet(). So anySet() this is. So
we're gonna say addAttribute and
we're expecting it to add an attribute
with the String recipes and with anySet()
value. So let's verify this, go ahead and
run it now.
It's not happy with that.
Okay took a closer look at that and my
mistake was I'm passing in an attribute
name and what I want is a match over there.
It's kind of telling me that the
error message is there. A little confusing and
what I wanna do is add in a matcher
and I'm going to use the equals matcher
to say that I want to make sure that the
attribute, we are passing in the first
value it's going to equal on the String
recipes and then the second value of
that method call is going to be anySet(). So if we look at the source code of
IndexController up here on line 26, we
can see that we're adding in the
attribute which is effectively a map. And we're writing the map key String of recipes
and then any value coming back from the
RecipeService is going to be a set. And
which is why we're saying anySet() there. So let's go ahead and run this now and
we see that we now have a test that is
verifying the actions of our controller.
And let's make sure that all our tests
are running. So we can come in and say
Run 'All Tests'. Make sure that we didn't
inadvertently break anything and again
you can see that the Spring integration
test does take a little bit longer
because we're bringing up the full
context and then you can see just how
quickly the other tests run that go by
a blink of an eye.